

===== PAGE 1 =====

Page 1 of 6 
 
 
 
STANDARD VENDOR AGREEMENT FOR GOODS 
 
This Vendor Agreement is made and entered as of ___ day of _____ 2021 
 
BETWEEN  
 
CARE India Solutions for Sustainable Development a company registered under section 25 of the 
Companies Act, 1956 (now section 8 of the Companies Act, 2013) having its corporate office at 
Module No. 411 | 4th Floor | NSIC-MDBP Building | Okhla Industrial Estate, Phase-III, New Delhi – 
110020 through its Authorized Signatory (hereinafter called “CISSD” which expression unless 
repugnant to the context and/or expressly excluded shall include its assigns) party of the first part; 
 
AND 
 
__________, a Company/ firm, situated at ______ (hereinafter referred to as the “Vendor” which 
expression shall unless repugnant to the context hereof, be deemed to mean and include its 
successors and assigns) party of the second; 
 
Both CISSD and the Vendor are also referred to individually as “party” and collectively as 
“parties”; 
 
WHEREAS the Vendor is desirous of providing its goods in accordance with the requirements of 
CISSD; 
 
AND WHEREAS CISSD and the Vendor duly represent and warrant that the parties have the legal 
right and competence to enter into this Agreement and perform the obligations listed herein. 
 
NOW THEREFORE IN CONSIDERATION OF MUTUAL PROMISES, IT IS HEREBY AGREED BETWEEN 
THE PARTIES AS UNDER: 
 
1) GOVERNING LAW: This Agreement shall be construed and enforced in accordance with and 
governed by the laws of the Republic of India, and within the exclusive jurisdiction of courts in 
Delhi unless agreed otherwise in writing by parties without regard to its choice of law /rules. 
 
2) SCOPE OF WORK: The Vendor shall provide to CISSD the goods of the description as set out in the 
Purchase Order issued by CISSD to the Vendor which shall be read in conjunction with this 
Agreement. The placement of the Purchase Order with the Vendor is expressly conditioned on 
the Vendor’s acceptance of the terms contained in this Agreement, including without 
limitation, the Order shall not be filled at prices higher than stated or for different quantities. 
Any additional or different terms or conditions in any communication from the Vendor are 
expressly objected to and are not effective or binding; unless CISSD agrees to the same in 
writing; and no such additional or different terms are part of a contract between CISSD and the 
Vendor, even if CISSD accepts performance under the Order. Any objection by the Vendor to 
the terms hereof shall be ineffective and deemed waived by the Vendor when the Vendor 
accepts the Order. Each Purchase Order terminates sixty (60) days after the Delivery Date, 


===== PAGE 2 =====

Page 2 of 6 
 
except as set forth herein or as CISSD shall notify the Vendor in writing. The Purchase Order 
Number above shall be shown on all invoices, communications, and other similar documents. 
 
3) PRICE: The prices stated in the Purchase Order are complete; the Vendor shall add no additional 
charges. The Vendor warrants that the prices charged are competitive with prevailing market 
rates and do not exceed prices charged to other customers for a similar quantity and quality of 
Goods. The Vendor shall specify all applicable costs, including taxes, duty, export and 
transportation fees and other charges on its invoice as separate items, and shall bear such costs 
as part of total Price charged.  If the Vendor’s travel reimbursement shall be made under this 
Agreement, then the Vendor shall follow CISSD's travel policies and be subject to CISSD’s per 
diem rates.  Invoices in duplicate are required. CISSD will pay the Vendor as specified in the 
Purchase Order, including pursuant to any discount terms; if no time of payment is indicated, 
payment shall be made no later than thirty (30) days after the later of: CISSD’s acceptance of 
the Goods or CISSD’s receipt of the relevant invoice for proper performance. The Vendor shall 
be paid full compensation for Goods properly delivered subsequent to the termination date 
and handing over of materials relating thereto approved by CISSD, such as work-in-progress, 
plans, drawings, and specifications; and subject to the Vendor returning all CISSD property, 
advances and other related materials in the possession of the Vendor to the satisfaction of 
CISSD. The title shall vest in CISSD for any such materials for which CISSD has paid the Vendor 
in accordance with this Agreement. Any adjustments in the Vendor’s invoices due to shortages, 
late deliveries, rejection or other failure to comply with the requirements of this Agreement 
and/or Purchase Order including any agreed penalty for the same may, at CISSD’s option, be 
made by CISSD before payment; but failure to do so shall not deprive CISSD of the right to do 
so later. CISSD may withhold ten percent (10%) from payment of the final invoice to ensure that 
all the Goods conform to this Agreement and Purchase Order and all necessary documentation 
has been properly received. 
 
4) QUALITY: The Vendor warrants that the Goods are (a) free of all deficiencies and defects in 
materials, design and workmanship for the period of one (1) year from the date CISSD accepts 
the Goods, (b) all materials created for CISSD in accordance with this Agreement and Purchase 
Order [other than materials pre-existing this Agreement and prepared for other customers] shall 
be original work, shall be deemed work for hire and shall not infringe the rights of any third 
parties, and (c) are free of any lien or encumbrance.  The Vendor warrants that it shall vest all 
title and rights to the Goods in CISSD and provide CISSD any documentation that CISSD may 
request relating to its ownership of the work. If no quality is specified in this Agreement and/or 
Purchase Order, then the Goods delivered must be of the best quality as recognized by market 
standards and conforming to or exceeding all specifications provided by the Vendor. 
 
5) CONDUCT: The Vendor undertakes to avoid exploitation of child labor and shall not discriminate 
on the basis of race, ethnicity, religion, gender, disability with respect to the Goods provided to 
CISSD either at its premises or otherwise. The Vendor shall comply with: (a) the office and security 
policies and directives of CISSD; (b) CISSD's policy prohibiting harassment and discrimination; and 
(c) such other polices as CISSD may make known to the Vendor. The parties are independent 
contractors of each other, and: (a) each party is responsible for all payments relating to the Goods, 
including without limitation applicable taxes, fees, social security of Vendor personnel, income tax 
withholding, and insurance; (b) both parties are solely responsible to comply with all statutory 
provisions pertaining to their own employees and resources; (c) neither party is an agent of the 


===== PAGE 3 =====

Page 3 of 6 
 
other, has the authority to enter into any contract or obligation on behalf of the other party; and 
(d) nothing herein shall create an employer/employee relationship, partnership or joint venture 
between the parties, or between one party and any employee of the other. 
 
6) ANTI CORRUPTION: The Vendor shall comply with all laws and regulations applicable to its 
performance hereunder. The Vendor and its employees shall maintain and comply with a written 
code of conduct that prohibits giving anything of value, directly or indirectly, to any person or 
entity, including government officials or CISSD staff, in the form of a bribe or kickback; establishes 
appropriate limitations on transactions with relatives of Vendor’s employees or businesses or 
ventures related to the Vendor or its employees; and otherwise properly governs the performance 
of its employees engaged in soliciting, awarding or administering contracts, and receiving gifts. 
 
7) SHIPPING, PACKING, DELIVERY: Unless otherwise stated in the Purchase Order, all Goods shall 
be shipped freight prepaid D.D.U Destination, and CISSD will pay no charge for packing, boxing 
or cartage. The Vendor is solely responsible for any loss of or damage to any Goods before 
receipt by CISSD at Destination. Each package of Goods will contain documentation showing 
shipper’s name, contents of package, and the Order Number. A copy of the bill of lading, 
invoice, customs and import/export notices, or similar documentation shall be sent at time of 
shipment to CISSD at the address stated in this Agreement as well as to the Destination, if 
different. Time is of the essence and delivery of Goods shall be strictly in accordance with this 
Agreement and the Purchase Order. Delays in shipment or otherwise, for whatsoever reason 
shall be reported immediately to CISSD, and the Purchase Order payment shall be subject to a 
late arrival penalty. Partial deliveries may not be accepted; immediately inform and 
communicate to CISSD in advance if a partial delivery is requested. 
 
8) ASSIGNMENT AND SUB-CONTRACTING: The Vendor shall not assign its responsibilities under this 
Agreement and/ or Purchase Order to any third party, without prior written permission from 
CISSD. Similarly, the Vendor shall not sub-contract its duties and responsibilities to provide 
Goods under this Agreement and/ or Purchase Order to a third party, without receiving prior 
written permission from CISSD. Further, if CISSD does grant the Vendor permission to sub-
contract its duties and responsibilities under this Agreement and/or Purchase Order or part 
thereof, then the said sub-contractor must be apprised and bound by the same covenants as 
are mentioned in this Agreement and the Purchase Order issued to the Vendor.  
 
9) INSPECTION AND ACCEPTANCE: All Goods shall be subject to CISSD audit and inspection; and, if 
applicable, test at any time and place, including at place of manufacture. The Vendor will make 
available to CISSD copies of applicable drawings, specifications, and processes and shall 
promptly provide CISSD any resulting inspection/ audit certificates. Further, all Goods are 
subject to a final inspection and acceptance by CISSD at the Destination notwithstanding any 
payment or other prior inspections. CISSD may reject and hold at Vendor’s expense, subject to 
Vendor’s disposal, all Goods not conforming to this Agreement and/or the Purchase Order or 
other applicable specifications, drawings, samples, descriptions or requirements of CISSD. 
 
10) DEFECTIVE WORK: If any Goods are found to be defective in material or workmanship or 
otherwise do not conform to this Agreement and/or Purchase Order, then CISSD may: (a) 
require the Vendor to repair or replace at Vendor’s cost any such non-conforming Goods within 
30 days of notification for the same; (b) require the Vendor to refund the price of any such 


===== PAGE 4 =====

Page 4 of 6 
 
Goods within 30 days of notification for the same; or (c) opt to retain and correct any such 
Goods with an appropriate price reduction to offset CISSD’s costs of making correction(s). 
Nothing, including any final inspection, shall relieve the Vendor from its responsibility to correct 
or replace the Goods defective as a result of fraud, recklessness or latent defects. All these are 
without prejudice to any other remedies available to CISSD under the law. 
 
11) CANCELLATION AND DEFAULT: In addition to any other remedies available, CISSD may 
cancel/terminate this Agreement and/or Purchase Order, in whole or in part, at any time by 
written notice to the Vendor, including without limitation in any of the following circumstances: 
(a) The Vendor fails to deliver the Goods as specified herein; (b) in CISSD’s good faith judgment, 
the Vendor failed to perform, or jeopardized performance of, this Agreement and/or Purchase 
Order in compliance with its terms, and failed to cure such failure within ten (10) days after 
notice from CISSD; (c) The Vendor files for bankruptcy, reorganization, readjustment of debt or 
has insolvency proceedings instituted against it under law of any jurisdiction. On receipt of such 
notice, the Vendor shall discontinue all work, cancel all pending orders (and sub-orders) and 
terminate any sub-contracts relating to the Goods to be provided under this Agreement and/or 
Purchase Order. Upon such termination, full and complete settlement of all Vendor claims shall 
be made as follows: a) The Vendor shall be paid for the Goods conforming to this Agreement 
and Purchase Order till the date of termination; and b) title shall vest in CISSD for all such Goods 
for which CISSD has paid. 
 
12) CHANGES: Changes or amendments to this Agreement and/or Purchase Order may only be 
made by CISSD by its written authorization. CISSD may make changes in the method of shipping 
or packing and place of delivery by written communication (or, if accepted by Vendor, verbal 
communication) prior to the shipment of Goods. If any such change by CISSD affects the cost 
or delivery schedules as mentioned in this Agreement and/or Purchase Order, an equitable 
adjustment shall be made, provided the Vendor makes a written claim therefore within thirty 
(30) days from the date of CISSD’s communication of the change. 
 
13) INDEMNIFICATION: The Vendor shall indemnify and hold harmless CISSD and its related 
entities from and against any claims, losses, damages, expenses, penalties, causes of action or 
liabilities arising from: (a) the Vendor’s breach of any obligations or warranties hereunder, or 
violation of trade secrets, patent, trademark or other intellectual property rights, or (b) any 
other acts or omissions of the Vendor, its agents, employees, sub-contractors, or guests, 
relating to this Agreement and/or Purchase Order. In no event shall CISSD be liable for the 
Vendor’s lost profits or consequential or incidental damages. Any action by the Vendor against 
CISSD arising in connection with this Agreement and/or Purchase Order must be commenced 
within one (1) year from the date the cause of action accrued; or else the same shall be deemed 
to be waived. 
 
14) CONFIDENTIALITY: During the term of this Agreement and subsequent to its termination, 
except as specifically set forth herein to perform the terms of this Agreement, neither party 
shall disclose any confidential information of the other party to any third-party or make use of 
such confidential information for its own purposes without the owner’s prior written consent. 
Confidential information shall mean any information (written, oral or observed) relating to: (a) 
donors or potential donors; (b) operations and private contacts; (c) CISSD employees; (d) 
business or strategic plans; (e) finances; or (f) a relationship with any governmental entity; and 


===== PAGE 5 =====

Page 5 of 6 
 
shall also include information specifically designated confidential by the owner or that the 
receiving party knows or reasonably should know is not public. Confidential information does 
not include any information generally known to the public or readily obtainable from public 
sources. Further, confidential information may be disclosed to government authorities if the 
disclosure is required by law and the disclosing party has provided the owner notice and, if 
practicable, a reasonable opportunity to defend against such disclosure. Upon the termination 
or expiration of this Agreement, both parties shall destroy or return such information of the 
other party in its possession, including copies and notes, and in the case of destruction, at the 
owner’s request shall certify to such destruction. Neither party shall use the other party’s name 
or marks in any form of publicity or publicly disclose information relating to its Services without 
the other party's prior written consent. Neither party shall publicly disparage the other. 
 
15) COMPLIANCE WITH LAW AND DISPUTES: The Vendor shall comply with all laws, regulations, 
and orders applicable to its performance hereunder. The parties shall first try to resolve any 
controversy or claim arising out of or relating to this Agreement and/or Purchase Order, or the 
breach or alleged breach thereof, by good faith negotiation among senior managers unrelated 
to the dispute, and failing that, by arbitration.  The parties shall select a mutually acceptable 
arbitrator and work in good faith with the arbitrator to resolve the dispute.  The location of the 
arbitration shall be New Delhi, India.  To the extent permitted by law, the arbitrator’s decision 
shall be final and binding and may be entered in any court having competent jurisdiction. The 
Vendor shall keep complete and accurate records that provide a basis for its invoices hereunder.  
During the term hereof and for three (3) years thereafter, CISSD, and its Donor(s), if applicable, or 
their agents, may inspect and make extracts from such records, provided that CISSD/Donor gives 
the Vendor at least seven (7) days prior written notice. 
 
16) ENTIRE AGREEMENT: This Agreement, together with its attachments and the Purchase Order 
contains the entire agreement between the parties related to the subject matter hereof, and 
no other representation, inducements, promises, understandings, arrangements or 
agreements, oral or otherwise, shall be of any force or effect.  Each attachment is incorporated 
by reference herein and forms a part of this Agreement. The Vendor shall not assign its 
obligations hereunder, without the prior written consent of CISSD. If any provision of this 
Agreement is declared to be invalid, illegal, or unenforceable to any extent, the remainder of 
this Agreement shall not be affected and shall be enforceable to the fullest extent permitted 
by law. The parties are independent contractors. This Agreement creates no employer/employee 
relationship, partnership or joint venture between the parties, or between one party and any 
employee of the other. Certain obligations hereunder by their content shall survive the 
completion or termination of this Order, including those in Clauses 4, 5, 9 through and including 
15. 
 
17) ANTI TERRORISM CERTIFICATION:  Each Party certifies that it has not provided and will not 
provide material support or resources to any individual or organization with the knowledge or 
intent that the support or resources be used to prepare for or carry out an act of terrorism in 
violation of applicable laws.   
 
18) DONOR REQUIREMENTS: If this Agreement is funded with donor funds, certain donor 
requirements may apply. For the purpose of this agreement, it is as follow: 
 


===== PAGE 6 =====

Page 6 of 6 
 
(a) These provisions must be communicated and complied with by the Vendor’s 
Subcontractors. 
 
(b) At CISSD’s request, the Vendor shall sign any certificates or documents and such take 
actions as are required by the donor. 
 
 
Signed by: 
 
 
 
 
 
Signed by 
CISSD  
 
 
 
 
 
Vendor 
 
 
 
Name:   
 
 
 
 
 
Name 
Designation: 
 
 
 
 
 
Designation 
 
Date: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Date: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
