

===== PAGE 1 =====

PRACTICE NOTE
Reproduced from Practical Law, with the permission of the publishers. For further information visit uk.practicallaw.thomsonreuters.com
or call +44 20 7542 6664. Copyright ©Thomson Reuters 2023. All Rights Reserved.
Individual Employee Termination (India)
by Nipasha Mahanta, Sayantani Saha, and Vikram Shroff, Nishith Desai Associates
Status: Law stated as at 01-May-2023 | Jurisdiction: India
This document is published by Practical Law and can be found at: uk.practicallaw.tr.com/w-035-3396 
Request a free trial and demonstration at: uk.practicallaw.tr.com/about/freetrial
A Practice Note addressing the legal and practical issues that arise when terminating the 
employment of individuals in India.
This Note considers the reasons enabling lawful individual employee termination as well as what 
constitutes an unlawful termination. It also addresses the procedures for individual employee 
terminations and best practices to minimise the risk of legal challenges.
There are several important legal issues to consider 
when an employer or employee is seeking to terminate 
employment in India. These include the reason for 
termination, any process that must be followed, the 
termination payments which may be owed to the 
employee, and when a termination is unlawful.
This Note sets out the key details on these topics and 
explains which laws underpin them. It explains the 
concept of retrenchment and distinguishes between 
how the law on termination applies to workmen and 
non-workmen. The Note also outlines redundancy as a 
ground for termination and the courts’ position on this, 
and how the law on termination applies to an employee 
on probation.
Relevant Laws on Termination
In India, employment can only be terminated for a 
reasonable cause or misconduct (see Misconduct). The 
concept of “at-will” employment is not recognised under 
Indian law.
The Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (ID Act) and 
the corresponding state-specific rules provide 
for employment termination (retrenchment (see 
Retrenchment). Additionally, several state-specific 
labour laws (applicable to commercial establishments) 
also contain employment termination provisions.
The terms of employment as contained in the 
employer’s standing orders (a set of terms and 
conditions of employment as envisaged under the 
Industrial Employment (Standing Orders) Act, 1946 
(IESOA), if any), employment contract, and HR policies 
must also be considered. Generally, provisions in the 
employment contract that are more favourable to the 
employee will override the law.
There is no legal requirement to engage in consultation 
or have collective bargaining agreements with trade 
unions, unless the employer has recognised any 
trade union in the establishment (that is, it accepts a 
particular trade union having a representative character 
in its workforce).
The ID Act applies only to employees categorised as 
“workmen”. Workmen are individuals employed to do 
any manual, unskilled, skilled, technical, operational, 
clerical, or supervisory work for hire or reward (section 
2(s), ID Act). A workman excludes any employee 
primarily engaged in a managerial or administrative 
capacity, or in a supervisory capacity earning wages 
exceeding INR10,000 per month.
No distinction exists between individual terminations 
and collective or mass terminations under Indian 
labour law. In cases of reduction-in-force, there are 
certain specific provisions under the law with which the 
employer must comply (see Redundancy).
For non-workmen category employees, termination 
takes place as per the statutory state-specific notice 
requirements, the employee’s contract, and the 
establishment’s HR policies, as there is no central law 
which applies to termination of non-workmen.
Reasons for Termination
Indian laws permit termination of employment for 
misconduct (see Misconduct).
Additionally, Indian courts have generally recognised 
the following as reasonable causes for termination of 
employment:
•	 Non-performance.
•	 Redundancy.


===== PAGE 2 =====

2   Practical Law
Reproduced from Practical Law, with the permission of the publishers. For further information visit uk.practicallaw.thomsonreuters.com
or call +44 20 7542 6664. Copyright ©Thomson Reuters 2023. All Rights Reserved.
Individual Employee Termination (India)
•	 Loss of confidence in the employee’s ability to perform 
their duties and obligations.
The employer should support each of these reasons with 
sufficient evidence or proof on record to successfully 
defend a claim for wrongful termination in the Indian 
courts.
Courts’ Power
If an employee (including non-workmen) files a claim for 
unlawful termination of employment and is successful, 
the court may direct any or all of the following:
•	 Reinstatement of the employee.
•	 Payment of back wages.
•	 Compensation.
Indian courts are typically pro-employee. Therefore, 
Indian employers should be meticulous with their 
documentation as evidence or proof on record relating 
to employment termination.
Retrenchment
Retrenchment is the termination by the employer of 
the service of a workman for any reason, other than as 
a sanction by way of disciplinary action (section 2(oo), 
ID Act).
Retrenchment Exclusions
Retrenchment excludes:
•	 Voluntary retirement of the workman.
•	 Retirement of the workman on reaching the age of 
superannuation if the employment contract between 
the employer and the workman concerned contains 
a stipulation to that effect. (The ID Act does not 
provide a specific age for superannuation but under 
the Employees’ Provident Funds and Miscellaneous 
Provisions Act, 1952, it is 58 years old.)
•	 Termination of the service of the workman if their 
fixed-term contract (FTC) is:
–– not renewed on its expiry; or
–– terminated for any other reason stipulated in the 
contract.
See also Practice Note, Fixed-Term Contracts 
(India).
•	 Termination of the service of a workman on the 
ground of continued ill-health.
•	 Termination of employment for misconduct, for which 
a separate process applies in line with the principles 
of natural justice (see Misconduct).
Conditions for Retrenchment
The conditions for retrenchment of a workman who 
has been in continuous service for at least one year 
(interpreted as 240 days of continuous service (section 
25B, ID Act)) are:
•	 The workman has been either:
–– given one month’s notice in writing indicating the 
reasons for retrenchment and the period of notice 
has expired; or
–– paid in lieu of that notice wages for the period of 
the notice.
•	 The workman has been paid, at the time of 
retrenchment, compensation (severance) equivalent 
to 15 days’ average pay for every completed year of 
continuous service or any part of a year in excess of six 
months.
•	 Notice in the prescribed manner is served on the 
government in the prescribed format.
(Section 25F, ID Act.)
For industrial establishments such as factories, 
mines, and plantations with at least 100 workmen on 
an average working day in the past 12 months, the 
following are the conditions for retrenchment:
•	 The workman has been either:
–– given three months’ notice in writing indicating the 
reasons for retrenchment and the period of notice 
has expired; or
–– paid in lieu of that notice wages for the period of 
the notice.
•	 The workman, at the time of retrenchment, has been 
paid compensation equivalent to 15 days’ average pay 
for every completed year of continuous service or any 
part of a year in excess of six months.
•	 The employer has obtained the prior permission of the 
government before retrenching the workman.
(Section 25N, ID Act.)
The number of workmen required for the above 
conditions to apply is increased to 300 in select Indian 
states. The proposed new labour codes in India also 
increase the limit to 300 workers (section 77, Industrial 
Relations Code, 2020).
Notice of Retrenchment
The timeline and format for the notice of retrenchment 
to the government is prescribed under the central or 
state rules corresponding to the ID Act. For example, as 
per the Industrial Disputes (Maharashtra) Rules, 1957, 
the authorities should be notified either:


===== PAGE 3 =====

3   Practical Law
Reproduced from Practical Law, with the permission of the publishers. For further information visit uk.practicallaw.thomsonreuters.com
or call +44 20 7542 6664. Copyright ©Thomson Reuters 2023. All Rights Reserved.
Individual Employee Termination (India)
•	 Not less than 21 days before the date of retrenchment, 
if the notice of retrenchment has been given to a 
workman.
•	 Within seven days of the date of retrenchment if the 
notice of retrenchment has not been given but the 
workman is paid wages in lieu of notice.
•	 Where the retrenchment is carried out under an 
agreement:
–– at least one month before the date of termination if 
that date is specified in the agreement; or
–– on the date of that agreement, where the date of 
termination is not so specified.
The Shops and Establishments Acts (state-specific laws 
applicable to commercial establishments) require an 
employer to provide at least one month’s (30 days’) 
prior notice or pay in lieu if employment is terminated 
for reasonable cause. The provisions on termination of 
employment under most of the state-specific Shops and 
Establishment Acts are applicable once the employee 
has completed a minimum period of employment. 
This is typically up to six months. Some of the Shops 
and Establishments Acts do not specifically apply to 
employees working in a managerial capacity.
See also Practice Note, Notice of Termination (India).
Redundancy
Indian courts recognise redundancy of position as a 
valid ground for termination of employment (see for 
example the Madras High Court judgment in India Type 
and Rubber Co v Their Workmen, AIR 1958 Mad 205). 
Courts have in the past upheld redundancies on account 
of reasons such as:
•	 Cessation of a particular type of business activity.
•	 Automation and technological advancements.
•	 Organisational restructuring in the case of a merger 
and acquisition (M&A).
As the courts in India (especially the lower courts) tend 
to take a conservative and pro-employee approach, it 
is critical that the employer demonstrates (by way of 
adequate documentation):
•	 That the role is no longer relevant and is being 
eliminated from the organisation due to relevant 
business reasons.
•	 How each employee was selected or shortlisted.
•	 Given each of the employees’ experience and skill 
sets, that there is no possibility of re-training them or 
providing other opportunities with the employer or its 
affiliates by way of an internal transfer.
The employer should create a business case of 
redundancy before employment termination. While 
this is not legally required, it would help demonstrate 
the genuineness of the reasons behind the termination 
should the employee challenge the termination in a 
court of law or if they raise an allegation of victimisation. 
All business cases should be documented at the Indian 
entity level as the Indian courts are unlikely to accept 
some global decisions made at the parent entity level.
The business case may alternatively be supported by a 
resolution of the board of directors of the Indian entity. 
If the termination is challenged in a court of law by 
an employee or group of employees or trade unions, 
a well drafted business case would help the employer 
demonstrate that the redundancy was not a sham and 
that there were adequate business reasons warranting 
the elimination of those roles.
Redundancy Process for Workmen
In cases of redundancy or reduction-in-force when 
terminating an employee who is a workman under the 
ID Act, the employer should take the following steps 
before making a final termination decision: 
•	 Prepare and post (in a conspicuous place on company 
premises) a list of all workmen who will be retrenched, 
set out according to seniority of their service in 
that category, seven days before the employees’ 
retrenchment date.
•	 Follow the rule of last in, first out for selecting 
an employee to be terminated. The employer 
must justify any deviation from that rule (section 
25G, ID Act). This is only applicable to workmen 
category employees. There is no such selection 
criterion mentioned under the law for non-workmen 
category of employees.
Neither redundancy nor reduction-in-force are legally 
defined. Redundancy is typically interpreted in the 
context of an employee’s role becoming redundant 
owing to the employer’s business-related reasons. 
Reduction-in-force is generally used in case of mass 
redundancies leading to employment downsizing.
The ID Act also requires the employer to provide 
an opportunity to the retrenched workmen to offer 
themselves for re-employment if the employer employs 
any persons in the future. These workmen must be 
given preference over others (section 25H, ID Act). 
This typically applies only to workmen retrenched for 
redundancies.
Indian labour laws do not provide for any consultation 
process before finalising the decision to terminate 
individual employment for business reasons.


===== PAGE 4 =====

4   Practical Law
Reproduced from Practical Law, with the permission of the publishers. For further information visit uk.practicallaw.thomsonreuters.com
or call +44 20 7542 6664. Copyright ©Thomson Reuters 2023. All Rights Reserved.
Individual Employee Termination (India)
The ID Act also has additional provisions for cases of 
closing down an undertaking. Employers are required to 
provide 60 days’ notice to workmen (in establishments 
with at least 50 workmen) before closing down an 
undertaking along with payment of retrenchment 
compensation (sections 25FFA and 25FFF). Closure 
of establishments such as factories, mines, and so on 
which employ at least 100 workmen (in some states, 
the threshold is 300) requires approval from the labour 
authorities at least 90 days before the date of closure 
(section 25O).
Performance or Capability 
Reasons
Indian labour laws do not provide a specific list of 
performance or capability reasons for which an employer 
may terminate employment. Typically, in cases of 
employee non-performance, the employer should:
•	 Document the non-performance.
•	 Inform or provide regular feedback to the employee 
regarding the non-performance in writing.
•	 Provide an opportunity to the employee to improve 
performance.
Since termination due to poor performance is largely 
practice driven, employers adopt varied methods to 
handle the documentation. Typically, the employer 
should require their managers to provide performance 
feedback to their subordinates to ensure timely 
documentation of any employee non-performance.
Although not a legal requirement, employers typically 
implement a performance improvement process, 
whereby the employer documents its employees’ 
performance following certain subjective and objective 
performance indicators.
A performance improvement plan may be helpful to 
prove the employer’s efforts to provide the employee an 
opportunity to improve performance before the decision 
for termination was taken. There is no legally stipulated 
period for the performance improvement process, but it 
generally ranges from 30 to 60 days.
If the employee consistently fails to show improvement 
in performance, the employer may adequately 
document this and initiate a process of termination, if 
deemed necessary.
Performance issues are separate from misconduct. 
Employers should not confuse the two reasons for 
termination. The documentation for performance issues 
should be limited to the employee’s inability to meet 
the desired performance standards (see the Supreme 
Court decision in Gupta v SNB National Centre, 2007(1) 
SLR45(SC)).
In India, there is no legal requirement to provide a “last 
chance agreement” to a non-performing employee. 
However, the employer should document the fact that 
the employee was provided an opportunity to improve 
their performance before it initiates the termination.
Misconduct
The IESOA typically applies to manufacturing 
establishments and commercial establishments in 
states where the Payment of Wages Act, 1936 applies 
under the state-specific Shops and Establishments Acts. 
Under the IESOA, the Model Standing Orders prescribe 
the following acts as misconduct:
•	 Fraud.
•	 Unauthorised absenteeism.
•	 Willful insubordination.
•	 Sexual harassment.
•	 Willful damage to the employer’s property.
•	 Misappropriation.
An employer may take disciplinary action against 
an employee for that misconduct. A similar list is 
also provided under some state-specific Shops and 
Establishments Acts, such as Uttar Pradesh Dookan Aur 
Vanijya Adhishthan Adhiniyam, 1962.
The employer’s policies or standing orders should set 
out what constitutes misconduct warranting termination 
of an employee through specific examples or in general 
terms.
Disciplinary Enquiry Process
Before the employer prescribes the applicable sanction 
(proportionate to the misconduct), the misconduct must 
first be proved through an internal disciplinary enquiry 
process based on the principles of natural justice.
Once the misconduct is established through a formal 
enquiry, an employer can terminate employment 
as a sanction, provided that the sanction applied is 
proportionate to the gravity of the misconduct (see BC 
Chaturvedi v Union of India, 1995 6 SCC 749).
The disciplinary enquiry process typically includes the 
following:
•	 Charge sheet. The employer must serve a charge 
sheet on an employee against whom an enquiry is 
initiated. The charge sheet states each of the charges 
against the employee and seeks their explanation for 
those charges. It must include adequate references to 
the relevant provisions in the employment contract, 
policies, or any applicable standing orders. While 
the charge sheet can be sent by registered post, 


===== PAGE 5 =====

5   Practical Law
Reproduced from Practical Law, with the permission of the publishers. For further information visit uk.practicallaw.thomsonreuters.com
or call +44 20 7542 6664. Copyright ©Thomson Reuters 2023. All Rights Reserved.
Individual Employee Termination (India)
it should be served in person where possible. An 
acknowledgement must be obtained on the office copy.
•	 Preliminary fact-finding. In some cases, the 
employer may conduct a preliminary fact-finding or 
investigation exercise to understand the nature of the 
misconduct.
•	 Appointment of an enquiry officer. An enquiry 
officer must be appointed to conduct the disciplinary 
enquiry. The enquiry officer must not be biased in any 
way and can be internal or external to the company.
•	 Notice of enquiry. The employee must be served with 
a notice of the disciplinary enquiry stating the date, 
time, venue, name of enquiry officer, and so on. The 
employer may need to issue appropriate letters to 
the employee if they provide an explanation for the 
charges or do not provide any explanation.
•	 Principles of natural justice. The enquiry must be 
held in accordance with the principles of natural 
justice, that is, the employee must be given:
–– proper notice of the enquiry;
–– a fair chance to present their case and defend 
themselves; and
–– an opportunity to produce any witnesses or cross-
examine the witnesses produced by the employer.
•	 HR policies. The employer must comply with any 
specific procedure for holding a disciplinary enquiry 
set out in the company’s policies, standing orders (if 
applicable), code of conduct, and so on.
•	 Suspension and payment of subsistence allowance. 
The employer may suspend the employee during the 
enquiry proceedings (although this is not warranted 
in all situations). Suspension is generally a security 
measure when the employee’s continued presence in 
the workplace:
–– may lead to tampering with evidence;
–– may create unpredictable difficulties in conducting 
an impartial enquiry into the charges levelled 
against them;
–– could have an adverse effect on the morale of the 
other employees; or
–– could cause further loss to the company.
The employee must be paid subsistence allowance 
during the period of suspension in accordance with 
the provisions of the applicable HR policies. If no 
subsistence allowance is provided for in the HR 
policies that are in place, the employer is required 
to pay full salaries to a suspended employee, in the 
absence of any laws permitting payment of a lower 
subsistence allowance.
•	 Ex-parte enquiry. If the employee refuses to attend 
before the enquiry officer after proper notice, the 
enquiry officer can conduct the enquiry in the 
employee’s absence. Before holding an ex-parte 
enquiry, the employer should make every possible 
effort to serve the notice of enquiry personally. If 
service of notice is impossible, it should be published 
on the notice board of the company, as well as in 
newspapers having wide local circulation. Generally, 
if it can be proven that the employee was deliberately 
and willfully refusing to accept notice and appear 
before the enquiry officer, the enquiry officer can 
proceed with the inquiry ex-parte.
•	 Calling witnesses. During the enquiry, the employee 
as well as the employer may present witnesses before 
the enquiry officer. The employee must be given 
an opportunity to cross-examine the employer’s 
witnesses and vice versa.
•	 Enquiry report. The enquiry must be conducted 
in accordance with any timeline provided by the 
employer’s policies or standing orders (if any). 
Once the enquiry is complete, the enquiry officer 
must prepare an enquiry report, clearly stating the 
conclusion of the enquiry supported by reasons based 
on the facts and evidence presented before the officer.
Based on the enquiry officer’s report and if the 
misconduct is proved, the employer can take appropriate 
disciplinary action to sanction the employee, including 
termination, if deemed proportionate and appropriate.
There is no legal requirement to communicate 
the findings of the enquiry to the employee. Some 
employers, based on their policies and standing 
orders (if any), and exercising caution, may provide a 
second notice of cause to the employee, along with a 
communication of findings of the enquiry report, before 
proceeding with termination.
Resignation
The ID Act does not contain any provisions on voluntary 
resignation. Resignation is a purely voluntary act on the 
part of the employee. Indian law does not prescribe any 
restrictions limiting an employee’s ability to resign.
The ID Act does not specify any notice period obligations 
for a resigning employee. However, some standing 
orders and state-specific Shops and Establishments 
Acts require employees to provide their employer prior 
notice of a specific minimum period before stopping 
work after resigning.
Generally, offer letters or employment agreements 
govern the notice period and other requirements relating 
to voluntary resignation. In most cases, there are no 
statutory requirements governing employee resignation.
Certain statutory payments associated with termination 
of employment, including severance (retrenchment 


===== PAGE 6 =====

6   Practical Law
Reproduced from Practical Law, with the permission of the publishers. For further information visit uk.practicallaw.thomsonreuters.com
or call +44 20 7542 6664. Copyright ©Thomson Reuters 2023. All Rights Reserved.
Individual Employee Termination (India)
compensation) and notice period payments, do not 
apply in the event of voluntary resignation.
Employers in India generally prefer to encourage or 
incentivise the employee to voluntarily resign rather 
than terminate their employment. Since unlawful 
termination is one of the most litigated issues under 
Indian labour law, termination is typically considered 
the last resort. Voluntary resignation largely helps to 
mitigate litigation risk relating to unlawful termination. 
The concept of constructive dismissal has not been 
statutorily recognised in India.
Unlawful Terminations
An employer is not legally allowed to serve a 
termination notice to an employee in the following 
circumstances:
•	 When a female employee is absent from work in 
accordance with the provisions of the Maternity 
Benefit Act, 1961, to:
–– discharge or dismiss that employee on account of 
the absence from work; or
–– give notice of discharge or dismissal on a day so 
that the notice will expire during the absence.
•	 To dismiss, discharge, reduce, or otherwise punish an 
employee during the period the employee is:
–– in receipt of sickness benefit or maternity benefit;
–– in receipt of disablement benefit for temporary 
disablement;
–– under medical treatment for sickness; or
–– absent from work due to illness arising out of 
pregnancy or confinement rendering the employee 
unfit for work.
(Employees’ State Insurance Act, 1948 (ESIA).)
Employers should also be mindful of India’s anti-
discrimination laws, especially if the employee belongs 
to a protected category. The Rights of Persons with 
Disabilities Act, 2016, the Transgender Persons (Protection 
of Rights) Act, 2019 and the Human Immunodeficiency 
Virus and Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome 
(Prevention and Control) Act, 2017 are some statutes that 
provide protections against discrimination in employment 
to certain categories of employees. Those employees may 
bring discrimination-related claims if proper procedure 
has not been followed for their termination.
Probationary Periods
The Model Standing Orders under the IESOA define the 
term “probationer” as a workman who is provisionally 
employed to fill a permanent vacancy in a post and has 
not yet completed three months’ service. This definition 
applies only to establishments to which the IESOA 
applies (see Misconduct). However, since no other 
federal law provides this definition, some guidance can 
be taken from this definition itself.
In practice, the probationary period adopted by 
employers in India varies between three to six months 
from the date of commencement of employment. It is 
customary for the employer and employee agree the 
probationary period based on the employee’s seniority 
level and experience.
If an employee is within a probationary period which 
is less than one year, the ID Act provisions relating 
to retrenchment do not apply, as the workman has 
not completed the minimum work period threshold 
(which is at least one year of completed service) (see 
Retrenchment).
However, state-specific laws may apply. For example, 
the Delhi Shops and Establishments Act, 1954 (DSEA) 
provides that the employer may terminate an employee 
who has been employed for at least three months, on 
giving one month’s notice or pay in lieu. Accordingly, if 
the probationary period is more than three months, the 
provisions under DSEA on termination are still applicable 
since the applicability threshold is only three months.
If the employee wishes to resign during the probationary 
period, they must comply with:
•	 The notice period obligations under any applicable 
state-specific Shops and Establishments Acts.
•	 Any employment terms and conditions in the 
employment agreement between the parties.
Certain state-specific rules of central laws may also be 
applicable at the end of the probationary period. For 
example, in Maharashtra, the employer must issue an 
order in writing to make a probationer permanent in the 
post in which they are provisionally employed after the 
probationer has successfully completed three months’ 
uninterrupted service in that post, within seven days 
from the date of completion of that service (Section 
4-A, Maharashtra Industrial Employment (Standing 
Orders) Rules, 1959). If the probationer’s services 
are unsatisfactory, the manager may terminate their 
services after their probationary period.
Termination Payments
The following statutory payments need to be considered 
in relation to termination:
•	 Accrued and unpaid wages up to the termination date.
•	 Payment in lieu of the notice period (minimum of one 
month as per the applicable laws. If the employment 
contract provides for a higher notice period, that 


===== PAGE 7 =====

Legal solutions from Thomson Reuters
Thomson Reuters is the world’s leading source of news and information 
for professional markets. Our customers rely on us to deliver the 
intelligence, technology and expertise they need to find trusted answers. 
The business has operated in more than 100 countries for more than  
100 years. For more information, visit www.thomsonreuters.com
Individual Employee Termination (India)
higher notice must be provided). See also Practice 
Note, Notice of Termination (India).
•	 Severance (retrenchment compensation) calculated 
at the rate of 15 days’ pay for every completed year of 
service or any part of a year in excess of six months. 
This only applies to workmen category of employees 
who have completed at least one year (interpreted 
as 240 days) of employment. Severance payment 
calculations are based on the definition of wages 
under the ID Act, which refers to gross wages.
•	 Gratuity in accordance with the Payment of Gratuity 
Act, 1972 (POGA). This is payable only to employees 
(by an employer of at least ten employees) who have 
completed at least five years (interpreted as four 
years and 190 days) of continuous service with the 
employer. Gratuity must be paid at the rate of 15 days’ 
wages based on the rate of wages last drawn by the 
employee for every completed year of continuous 
service or part of a year in excess of six months 
(Section 4, POGA). The definition of wages under 
POGA is interpreted to mean basic wages. Gratuity is 
capped at INR2 million (POGA).
•	 Wages in lieu of accrued and unavailed (privilege or 
annual) leave up to a state-specific prescribed limit. 
The term “privilege leave” is interchangeably used 
with annual leave. It typically refers to leave which the 
employee is statutorily entitled to receive as a matter 
of right under the law.
•	 Arrears of statutory bonus, where applicable.
Any other accrued contractual dues such as bonuses, 
Employee Stock Option Plans (ESOP), and so on owed 
to the employee must be paid at the time of termination.
An employer cannot avoid compliance with the 
requirement to have a reasonable cause or permissible 
grounds for termination by offering severance, 
indemnification, or a similar payment.
If an employer terminates an employee and is unable 
to prove reasonable cause for termination before the 
courts in an unlawful termination claim, the court may 
order remedies (which may include compensation and 
reinstatement, for example).
If the employee resigns (rather than employer-led 
termination), there is no legal requirement to pay 
severance (retrenchment compensation), or any notice 
period payments mentioned above. However, all other 
payments listed above must be made.
Timelines
If the employment of any person is terminated by or on 
behalf of the employer, the wages they earned should be 
paid before the expiry of the second working day from 
the day of termination (Section 5(2), Payment of Wages 
Act, 1936). Payment of retrenchment compensation 
and notice pay should be before or on the date of 
retrenchment.
Date of Termination
The law does not specifically prescribe any guidance 
regarding the date of termination. Generally, the notice 
of termination cites the last day of employment, which is 
considered the effective date of termination, and when the 
rights and obligations of the employer and employee end. 
However, there are certain termination-related payments 
that must be made before the termination (see Timelines).
Termination and Other Related 
Agreements
There is no statutory requirement to execute a termination 
agreement in the case of employer-initiated termination.
Indian labour laws do not contain any specific provisions 
relating to mutual termination or mutual separation 
from employment. Generally, separation and release 
agreements are signed in the case of voluntary resignation 
or mutual separation (see Practice Note, Separation 
Agreements (Employment): India: Overview). In practice, 
and to ensure amicable separation, employers prefer to 
enter into mutual separation agreements with employees 
rather than initiate termination. However, these 
agreements largely remain untested by Indian courts.
A separation agreement contains clauses reminding 
the employee of their post-termination obligations, 
including confidentiality, IP, and non-solicit and 
non-compete restrictions. Post-termination non-
compete clauses are not enforceable in India but 
post-termination non-solicit clauses may be enforceable 
if they are reasonable. Non-compete and non-solicit 
clauses within the term of employment are enforceable.
Typically, a separation agreement also evidences the 
payment of contractual ex-gratia payments to the 
employee, which also acts as consideration for signing 
the agreement. To be admissible as evidence in courts, 
it is advisable to have the agreement stamped as per 
applicable stamp duty law on or before the date of 
execution (see the Indian Stamp Act, 1899 and state-
specific laws on stamp duty, which are applicable based 
on the state where the contract is to be executed, for 
example, the Maharashtra Stamp Act).
