

===== PAGE 1 =====

Indian Contract Act 1872 
Section 10 
What agreements are contracts.  
All agreements are contracts if they are made by the free consent of parties 
competent to contract, for a lawful consideration and with a lawful object, and 
are not hereby expressly declared to be void. 
Nothing herein contained shall affect any law in force in 1 India and not hereby 
expressly repealed by which any contract is required to be made in writing2 or 
in the presence of witnesses, or any law relating to the registration of 
documents. 
Section 23.    
What considerations and objects are lawful, and what not.  
The consideration or object of an agreement is lawful, unless— 
it is forbidden by law1 ; or 
is of such a nature that, if permitted, it would defeat the provisions of any law; 
or is fraudulent ; or involves or implies, injury to the person or property of 
another; or the Court regards it as immoral, or opposed to public policy. 
In each of these cases, the consideration or object of an agreement is said to 
be unlawful. Every agreement of which the object or consideration is unlawful 
is void. 
Illustrations 
 
(a) A agrees to sell his house to B for 10,000 rupees. Here Bs promise to pay the 
sum of 10,000 rupees is the consideration for As promise to sell the house, and 
As promise to sell the house is the consideration for Bs promise to pay the 
10,000 rupees. These are lawful considerations. 
 
(b) A promises to pay B 1,000 rupees at the end of six months, if C, who owes 
that sum to B, fails to pay it. B promises to grant time to C accordingly. Here, 


===== PAGE 2 =====

the promise of each party is the consideration for the promise of the other 
party, and they are lawful considerations. 
 
(c) A promises, for a certain sum paid to him by B, to make good to B the value 
of his ship if it is wrecked on a certain voyage. Here, As promise is the 
consideration for Bs payment and Bs payment is the consideration for As 
promise, and these are lawful considerations. 
 
(d) A promises to maintain Bs child, and B promises to pay A 1,000 rupees 
yearly for the purpose. Here, the promise of each party is the consideration for 
the promise of the other party. They are lawful considerations. 
 
(e) A, B and C enter into an agreement for the division among them of gains 
acquired or to be acquired, by them by fraud. The agreement is void, as its 
object is unlawful. 
 
(f) A promises to obtain for B an employment in the public service and B 
promises to pay 1,000 rupees to A. The agreement is void, as the consideration 
for it is unlawful. 
 
(g) A, being agent for a landed proprietor, agrees for money, without the 
knowledge of his principal, to obtain for B a lease of land belonging to his 
principal. The agreement between A and B is void. as it implies a fraud by 
concealment, by A, on his principal. 
 
(h) A promises B to drop a prosecution which he has instituted against B for 
robbery, and B promises to restore the value of the things taken. The 
agreement is void, as its object is unlawful. 
 
(i) As estate is sold for arrears of revenue under the provisions of an Act of the 
Legislature, by which the defaulter is prohibited from purchasing the estate. B, 


===== PAGE 3 =====

upon an understanding with A, becomes the purchaser, and agrees to convey 
the estate to A upon receiving from him the price which B has paid. The 
agreement is void, as it renders the transaction, in effect, a purchase by the 
defaulter, and would so defeat the object of the law. 
 
(j) A, who is Bs mukhtar, promises to exercise his influence, as such, with B in 
favour of C, and C promises to pay 1,000 rupees to A. The agreement is void, 
because it is immoral. 
 
(k) A agrees to let her daughter to hire to B for concubinage. The agreement is 
void, because it is immoral, though the letting may not be punishable under 
the Indian Penal Code (45 of 1860). 
Section 27.    
Agreement in restraint of trade, void.  
Every agreement by which any one is restrained from exercising a lawful 
profession, trade or business of any kind, is to that extent void. 
Exception 1.Saving of agreement not to carry on business of which good-will 
is sold.One who sells the good-will of a business may agree with the buyer to 
refrain from carrying on a similar business, within specified local limits, so long 
as the buyer, or any person deriving title to the good-will from him, carries on a 
like business therein, provided that such limits appear to the Court reasonable, 
regard being had to the nature of the business. 
 
Section 73.    
Compensation for loss or damage caused by breach of contract.  
When a contract has been broken, the party who suffers by such breach is 
entitled to receive, from the party who has broken the contract, compensation 
for any loss or damage caused to him thereby, which naturally arose in the 
usual course of things from such breach, or which the parties knew, when they 
made the contract, to be likely to result from the breach of it. 
 


===== PAGE 4 =====

Such compensation is not to be given for any remote and indirect loss or 
damage sustained by reason of the breach. 
 
Compensation for failure to discharge obligation resembling those created by 
contract.When an obligation resembling those created by contract has been 
incurred and has not been discharged, any person injured by the failure to 
discharge it is entitled to receive the same compensation from the party in 
default, as if such person had contracted to discharge it and had broken his 
contract. 
 
Explanation.In estimating the loss or damage arising from a breach of contract, 
the means which existed of remedying the inconvenience caused by the non-
performance of the contract must be taken into account. 
 
Illustrations 
 
(a) A contracts to sell and deliver 50 maunds of saltpetre to B, at a certain price 
to be paid on delivery. A breaks his promise. B is entitled to receive from A, by 
way of compensation, the sum, if any, by which the contract price falls short of 
the price for which B might have obtained 50 maunds of saltpetre of like 
quality at the time when the saltpetre ought to have been delivered. 
 
(b) A hires Bs ship to go to Bombay, and there take on board, on the first of 
January, a cargo, which A is to provide, and to bring it to Calcutta, the freight to 
be paid when earned. Bs ship does not go to Bombay, but A has opportunities 
of procuring suitable conveyance for the cargo upon terms as advantageous as 
those on which he had chartered the ship. A avails himself of those 
opportunities, but is put to trouble and expense in doing so. A is entitled to 
receive compensation from B in respect of such trouble and expense. 
 
(c) A contracts to buy of B, at a stated price, 50 maunds of rice, no time being 
fixed for delivery. A afterwards informs B that he will not accept the rice if 


===== PAGE 5 =====

tendered to him. B is entitled to receive from A, by way of compensation, the 
amount, if any, by which the contract price exceeds that which B can obtain for 
the rice at the time when A informs B that he will not accept it. 
 
(d) A contracts to buy B's ship for 60,000 rupees, but breaks his promise. A 
must pay to B, by way of compensation, the excess, if any, of the contract price 
over the price which B can obtain for the ship at the time of the breach of 
promise. 
 
(e) A, the owner of a boat, contracts with B to take a cargo of jute to Mirzapur, 
for sale at that place, starting on a specified day. The boat, owing to some 
avoidable cause, does not start at the time appointed, whereby the arrival of 
the cargo at Mirzapur is delayed beyond the time when it would have arrived if 
the boat had sailed according to the contract. After that date, and before the 
arrival of the cargo, the price of jute falls. The measure of the compensation 
payable to B by A is the difference between the price which B could have 
obtained for the cargo at Mirzapur at the time when it would have arrived if 
forwarded in due course, and its market price at the time when it actually 
arrived. 
 
(f) A contracts to repair B's house in a certain manner, and receives payment in 
advance. A repairs the house, but not according to contract. B is entitled to 
recover from A the cost of making the repairs conform to the contract. 
 
(g) A contracts to let his ship to B for a year, from the first of January, for a 
certain price. Freights rise, and, on the first of January, the hire obtainable for 
the ship is higher than the contract price. A breaks his promise. He must pay to 
B, by way of compensation, a sum equal to the difference between the contract 
price and the price for which B could hire a similar ship for a year on and from 
the first of January. 
 
(h) A contracts to supply B with a certain quantity of iron at a fixed price, being 
a higher price than that for which A could procure and deliver the iron. B 


===== PAGE 6 =====

wrongfully refuses to receive the iron. B must pay to A, by way of 
compensation, the difference between the contract price of the iron and the 
sum for which A could have obtained and delivered it. 
 
(i) A delivers to B, a common carrier, a machine, to be conveyed, without delay, 
to A's mill, informing B that his mill is stopped for want of the machine. B 
unreasonably delays the delivery of the machine, and A, in consequence, loses 
a profitable contract with the Government. A is entitled to receive from B, by 
way of compensation, the average amount of profit which would have been 
made by the working of the mill during the time that delivery of it was delayed, 
but not the loss sustained through the loss of the Government contract. 
 
(j) A, having contracted with B to supply B with 1,000 tons of iron at 100 rupees 
a ton, to be delivered at a stated time, contracts with C for the purchase of 
1,000 tons of iron at 80 rupees a ton, telling C that he does so for the purpose 
of performing his contract with B. C fails to perform his contract with A, who 
cannot procure other iron, and B, in consequence, rescinds the contract. C 
must pay to A 20,000 rupees, being the profit which A would have made by the 
performance of his contract with B. 
 
(k) A contracts with B to make and deliver to B, by a fixed day, for a specified 
price, a certain piece of machinery. A does not deliver the piece of machinery 
at the time specified, and in consequence of this, B is obliged to procure 
another at a higher piece than that which he was to have paid to A, and is 
prevented from performing a contract which B had made with a third person at 
the time of his contract with A (but which had not been then communicated to 
A), and is compelled to make compensation for breach of that contract. A must 
pay to B, by way of compensation, the difference between the contract price of 
the price of machinery and the sum paid by B for another, but not the sum paid 
by B to the third person by way of compensation. 
 
(l) A, a builder, contracts to erect and finish a house by the first of January, in 
order that B may give possession of it at that time to C, to whom B has 
contracted to let it. A is informed of the contract between B and C. A builds the 


===== PAGE 7 =====

house so badly that, before the first of January, it falls down and has to be re-
built by B, who, in consequence, loses the rent which he was to have received 
from C, and is obliged to make compensation to C for the breach of his 
contract. A must make compensation to B for the cost of rebuilding the house, 
for the rent lost, and for the compensation made to C. 
 
(m) A sells certain merchandise to B, warranting it to be of a particular quality, 
and B, in reliance upon this warranty, sells it to C with a similar warranty. The 
goods prove to be not according to the warranty, and B becomes liable to pay C 
a sum of money by way of compensation. B is entitled to be reimbursed this 
sum by A. 
 
(n) A contracts to pay a sum of money to B on a day specified. A does not pay 
the money on that day, B, in consequence of not receiving the money on that 
day, is unable to pay his debts, and is totally ruined. A is not liable to make 
good to B anything except the principal sum he contracted to pay, together 
with interest up to the day of payment. 
 
(o) A contracts to deliver 50 maunds of saltpetre to B on the first of January, at 
a certain price. B afterwards, before the first of January, contracts to sell the 
saltpetre to C at a price higher than the market price of the first of January. A 
breaks his promise. 
 
In estimating the compensation payable by A to B, the market price of the first 
of January, and not the profit which would have arisen to B from the sale to C, 
is to be taken into account. 
 
(p) A contracts to sell and deliver 500 bales of cotton to B on a fixed day. A 
knows nothing of Bs mode of conducting his business. A breaks his promise, 
and B, having no cotton, is obliged to close his mill. A is not responsible to B for 
the loss caused to B by the closing of the mill. 
 


===== PAGE 8 =====

(q) A contracts to sell and deliver to B, on the first of January, certain cloth 
which B intends to manufacture into caps of a particular kind, for which there is 
no demand, except at that season. The cloth is not delivered till after the 
appointed time, and too late to be used that year in making caps. B is entitled 
to receive from A, by way of compensation, the difference between the 
contract price of the cloth and its market price at the time of delivery, but not 
the profits which he expected to obtain by making caps, nor the expenses 
which he has been put to in making preparation for the manufacture. 
 
 
(r) A, a ship-owner, contracts with B to convey him from Calcutta to Sydney in 
A's ship, sailing on the first of January, and B pays to A, by way of deposit, one-
half of his passage-money. The ship does not sail on the first of January, and B, 
after being in consequence detained in Calcutta for some time and thereby put 
to some expense, proceeds to Sydney in another vessel, and, in consequence, 
arriving too late in Sydney, loses a sum of money. A is liable to repay to B his 
deposit, with interest, and the expense to which he is put by his detention in 
Calcutta, and the excess, if any, of the passage-money paid for the second ship 
over that agreed upon for the first, but not the sum of money which B lost by 
arriving in Sydney too late. 
Section 74.    
Compensation for breach of contract where penalty stipulated for.  
1[When a contract has been broken, if a sum is named in the contract as the 
amount to be paid in case of such breach, or if the contract contains any other 
stipulation by way of penalty, the party complaining of the breach is entitled, 
whether or not actual damage or loss is proved to have been caused thereby, 
to receive from the party who has broken the contract reasonable 
compensation not exceeding the amount so named or, as the case may be, the 
penalty stipulated for. 
 
Explanation.-- A stipulation for increased interest from the date of default may 
be a stipulation by way of penalty.] 
 


===== PAGE 9 =====

 
Exception.-- When any person enters into any bail-bond, recognizance or other 
instrument of the same nature, or, under the provisions of any law, or under 
the orders of the 2 [Central Government] or of any 3[State Government], gives 
any bond for the performance of any public duty or act in which the public are 
interested, he shall be liable, upon breach of the condition of any such 
instrument, to pay the whole sum mentioned therein. 
 
Explanation.-- A person who enters into a contract with Government does not 
necessarily thereby undertake any public duty, or promise to do an act in which 
the public are interested. 
 
Illustrations 
 
(a) A contracts with B to pay B Rs. 1,000, if he fails to pay B Rs. 500 on a given 
day. A fails to pay B Rs. 500 on that day. B is entitled to recover from A such 
compensation, not exceeding Rs. 1,000, as the Court considers reasonable. 
 
(b) A contracts with B that, if A practises as a surgeon within Calcutta, he will 
pay B Rs. 5,000. A practises as a surgeon in Calcutta. B is entitled to such 
compensation; not exceeding Rs. 5,000, as the Court considers reasonable. 
 
(c) A gives a recognizance binding him in a penalty of Rs. 500 to appear in Court 
on a certain day. He forfeits his recognizance. He is liable to pay the whole 
penalty. 
 
(d) A gives B a bond for the repayment of Rs. 1,000 with interest at 12 per cent. 
at the end of six months, with a stipulation that, in case of default, interest 
shall be payable at the rate of 75 per cent. from the date of default. This is a 
stipulation by way of penalty, and B is only entitled to recover from A such 
compensation as the Court considers reasonable. 


===== PAGE 10 =====

 
(e) A, who owes money to B a money-lender, undertakes to repay him by 
delivering to him 10 maunds of grain on a certain date, and stipulates that, in 
the event of his not delivering the stipulated amount by the stipulated date, he 
shall be liable to deliver 20 maunds. This is a stipulation by way of penalty, and 
B is only entitled to reasonable compensation in case of breach. 
 
(f) A undertakes to repay B a loan of Rs. 1,000 by five equal monthly 
instalments, with a stipulation that in default of payment of any instalment, the 
whole shall become due. This stipulation is not by way of penalty, and the 
contract may be enforced according to its terms. 
 
(g) A borrows Rs. 100 from B and gives him a bond for Rs. 200 payable by five 
yearly instalments of Rs. 40, with a stipulation that, in default of payment of 
any instalment, the whole shall become due. This is a stipulation by way of 
penalty.] 
Section 124.    
"Contract of indemnity" defined.  
A contract by which one party promises to save the other from loss caused to 
him by the conduct of the promisor himself, or by the conduct of any other 
person, is called a contract of indemnity. 
 
Illustration 
A contracts to indemnify B against the consequences of any proceedings which 
C may take against B in respect of a certain sum of 200 rupees. This is a 
contract of indemnity. 
Section 125.    
Rights of indemnity-holder when sued.  
The promise in a contract of indemnity, acting within the scope of his authority, 
is entitled to recover from the promisor— 
 


===== PAGE 11 =====

(1) all damages which he may be compelled to pay in any suit in respect of any 
matter to which the promise to indemnify applies; 
 
(2) all costs which he may be compelled to pay in any such suit if, in bringing or 
defending it, he did not contravene the orders of the promisor, and acted as it 
would have been prudent for him to act in the absence of any contract of 
indemnity, or if the promisor authorized him to bring or defend the suit; 
 
(3) all sums which he may have paid under the terms of any compromise of any 
such suit, if the compromise was not contrary to the orders of the promisor, 
and was one which it would have been prudent for the promisee to make in 
the absence of any contract of indemnity, or if the promisor authorized him to 
compromise the suit. 
Section 126 
  "Contract of guarantee", "surety", "principal debtor" and "creditor".  
A "contract of guarantee" is a contract to perform the promise, or discharge the 
liability, of a third person in case of his default. The person who gives the guarantee 
is called the "surety"; the person in respect of whose default the guarantee is given is 
called the "principal debtor", and the person to whom the guarantee is given is called 
the "creditor". A guarantee may be either oral or written. 
 
 
 
 
 
