

===== PAGE 1 =====

 
 
 
 
 
Study Notes 
Indian Contract Act, 1872 
Special Contract- 
Part 1 
Contract of Indemnity 
 &  
Guarantee 
 


===== PAGE 2 =====

Contract Act Contract of Indemnity & Guarantee                                                                
         
2  
 
INTRODUCTION 
 
The Indian Contract Act apart from laying down the provisions with respect to the 
general principles of contract also lays down provision relating to certain types of special 
contracts. These special contracts have been categorized into the following: 
 
CONTRACT OF INDEMNITY  
 
Section 124 of the Contract Act has defined the term indemnity as: 
 A contract by which one party promises to save the other from loss caused 
to him by the conduct of the promisor himself, or by the conduct of any 
other person. 
 Example: A contracts to indemnify B against the consequences of any 
proceedings which C may take against B in respect of a certain sum of 200 
rupees. This is a contract of indemnity. 
 
Thus, from the above definition it is clear that indemnity is a contract, express or 
implied wherein one party promises to safeguard the other from loss caused to him by 
the conduct of the promisor himself, or by the conduct of any other person.  
 
In other words, indemnity means to make good the loss or to compensate for the losses. 
 
There are two parties in a contract of indemnity as under: 
Special Contracts 
Indemnity  & Guarantee 
(Chapter VIII S.124-147)  
Indemnity  & Guarantee 
(Chapter VIII S.124-147)  
Agency 
(Chapter X  S.182-238) 


===== PAGE 3 =====

Contract Act Contract of Indemnity & Guarantee                                                                
         
3  
 
 
 Indemnifier is the promisor or the party who pays compensation for the loss of 
the indemnified 
 Indemnity –Holder/Indemnified on the other hand is the Promisee or the party 
who bear’s loss and is therefore, compensated by the indemnifier. 
 
 
The essential elements of contract of indemnity are: 
 All the essential elements of Contract are required to be present for the very 
formation of contract of indemnity too. 
 Liability of the indemnifier arises when the contingency or loss occurs or 
the loss is suffered by the indemnified. 
 A contract of indemnity can be expressed through words Witten or oral; or 
implied indemnity which arises due to the act or conduct of the parties. 
 In the contract of indemnity compensation is provided by the indemnifier for the 
loss suffered by Indemnity- Holder. 
 
 
Section 125 of the Act provides for the rights of indemnity-holder when sued or in 
other words, the promisee in a contract of indemnity, acting within the scope of his 
authority, is entitled to recover from the promisor: - 
 
 
 
 
Parties 
Indemnifier 
Indemnity –
Holder/Indemnified 
Rights of 
Indenmnity-Holder 
All Damages 
All Costs 
All Sums 


===== PAGE 4 =====

Contract Act Contract of Indemnity & Guarantee                                                                
         
4  
 
 all damages which he may be compelled to pay in any suit in respect of any 
matter to which the promise to indemnify applies;  
o The promisee is entitled to recover from the promisor damages which he 
may be compelled to pay in any suit in respect of any matter to which the 
promise to identify applies. 
 
 all costs which he may be compelled to pay in any such suit if, in bringing or 
defending it, he did not contravene the orders of the promisor, and acted as it 
would have been prudent for him to act in the absence of any contract of 
indemnity, or if the promisor authorized him to bring or defend the suit; 
o The above right can be exercised if the following requisites are present: 
 
If the orders of the promisor were not contravened; 
 
Promisee acted in the same prudent manner as he would have 
acted in the absence of any contract of indemnity; 
 
Promisor authorized him to bring or defend the suit. 
 
 all sums which he may have paid under the terms of any compromise of any 
such suit, if the compromise was not contrary to the orders of the promisor, and 
was one which it would have been prudent for the promisee to make in the 
absence of any contract of indemnity, or if the promisor authorized him to 
compromise the suit. 
 
 
The Contract Act is however, silent about the rights of Indemnifier. However, the Courts 
have held that the rights of indemnifier are the same as the rights of surety. Therefore, 
the rights available to the indemnifier are as under: 
 
 
 
 Refuse Indemnity: Indemnifier has the right to refuse indemnity to the 
indemnity-holder in case the losses suffered by the indemnity holder is beyond 
the contract. 
Thus, the indemnifier has a right to pay for only those losses which are covered 
in the contract of indemnity and not otherwise. 
 
Rights of Indenmnifier 
Refuse Indemnity 
Right of Subrogation:  


===== PAGE 5 =====

Contract Act Contract of Indemnity & Guarantee                                                                
         
5  
 
 Right of Subrogation: This right basically is similar to that of the surety. It 
basically means the process by which the rights will get shifted from one person 
to another. In other words, it means that the after compensating the indemnity 
holder for his loss the indemnifier has in certain cases the right to sue third party 
who is liable for that.  
 
 
 
CONTRACT OF GUARANTEE  
 
Section 126 defines contract of guarantee as: A contract to perform the promise, or 
discharge the liability, of a third person in case of his default.  
 
In other words, the contract of guarantee can be said to be a contract wherein the 
guarantor assures the creditor that the person in need i.e., the principal debtor may be 
trusted. However, in case of any default on the part of the principal debtor, the guarantor 
shall undertake the responsibility to pay. Thus, contract of guarantee is imperceptible 
security given to the creditor. 
 
Further, this section also defines the various parties in a contract of guarantee and also 
mentions that a guarantee may be either oral or written. 
 
There are three parties in a contract of guarantee as under: 
 
 
 
 Surety: The person who gives the guarantee is called the "surety";  
Rights of Indenmnifier 
Refuse Indemnity 
Subrogation 
Parties 
Surety 
Principal Debtor 
Creditor 


===== PAGE 6 =====

Contract Act Contract of Indemnity & Guarantee                                                                
         
6  
 
 Principal Debtor: The person in respect of whose default the guarantee is given 
is called the "principal debtor", and  
 Creditor: The person to whom the guarantee is given is called the "creditor".  
 
 
The various essential elements of contract of guarantee are:  
 All the essential elements of Contract are required to be present for the very 
formation of contract of guarantee too. 
 In the contract of guarantee there is the primary liability which is in existence 
and the primary liability is that of the Principal Debtor. Thus, the liability of the 
surety is secondary to that of the principal debtor and shall arise only when the 
principal debtor makes a default. In other words, it means that since the primary 
contract was between the creditor and principal debtor, in that case the liability to 
fulfill the terms of the contract is primarily with the principal debtor and the surety 
will only be liable in case of the default of the principal debtor. 
 Concurrence of all the parties is required for the contract of guarantee. In other 
words, all the three parties to the contract must agree to make such a contract 
with the agreement of each other. In such a contract the surety takes his 
responsibility to be liable for the debt of the principal debtor only on the request 
of the principal debtor and therefore, communication either express or implied by 
the principal debtor to the surety is necessary. Further, the communication by the 
surety with the creditor for entering into a contract of guarantee without the 
knowledge of the principal debtor will not constitute a valid contract of guarantee. 
 There should be the existence of debt in a contract of guarantee. As it is a 
contract to secure the payment of the debt taken by the principal debtor and 
therefore, if no such debt exists then there is nothing left for the surety to secure.  
 Consideration for guarantee is the things done or promise made for the benefit 
of the Principal Debtor and is considered as sufficient consideration for surety.  
o This provision has been specifically laid down under section 127 of the 
Contract Act as: Anything done, or any promise made, for the benefit of 
the principal debtor, may be a sufficient consideration to the surety for 
giving the guarantee.  
o Example: B requests A to sell and deliver to him goods on credit. A 
agrees to do so, provided C will guarantee the payment of the price of the 
goods. C promises to guarantee the payment in consideration of A’s 
promise to deliver the goods. This is a sufficient consideration for C’s 
promise. 
 
 
 
 
 


===== PAGE 7 =====

Contract Act Contract of Indemnity & Guarantee                                                                
         
7  
 
 
 
 
